README.md, before:

# fashion_one_shot_test
This is a small test project to explore one-shot training techniques for recognizing cloths from the deepfashion data set.

# Setup
## Download the datasets
Go to https://github.com/switchablenorms/DeepFashion2 and download the (train.zip) dataset from their google drive: 

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/125F48fsMBz2EF0Cpqk6aaHet5VH399Ok

## Setup a conda environment (OPTIONAL)
It is advised to create a python environment of your choice. For example:

```bash
conda create -n fashion python=3.8
conda activate fashion
```

## Write the database from the dataset
To combine the meta data for the images to one database, you can excute the following script.
```bash
python write_database.py --input="dir/of/data" --output="deepfashion_train.joblib"
```
This script reads all the data, creates a pandas dataframe and saves it as a joblib object.

### Load the database
If you want to load the database, simply execute

```python
import joblib

df = joblib.load("data/processed/deepfashion_train.joblib")
```

### Crop images
To save space and load times for training, it is advisable to crop the images to their bounding boxes. To do so, execute the following script passing the category_id you are interested in:

```bash
python crop_images.py --input="deepfashion_train.joblib" --output="path/to/cropped_images_dir" --category="1"
```

Commit message:

added functionality to specify the category_id of interest as well as the minimum number of items per pair_id in makefile

README.md, after:

# fashion_one_shot_test
This is a small test project to explore one-shot training techniques for recognizing cloths from the deepfashion data set.

# Setup
## Download the datasets
Go to https://github.com/switchablenorms/DeepFashion2 and download the (train.zip) dataset from their google drive: 

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/125F48fsMBz2EF0Cpqk6aaHet5VH399Ok

## Setup a conda environment (OPTIONAL)
It is advised to create a python environment of your choice. For example:

```bash
conda create -n fashion python=3.8
conda activate fashion
```

## Setup data (general)
To setup the data needed for training you can use the makefile provided.
You will be prompted to enter the [password](https://github.com/switchablenorms/DeepFashion2) required to unzip the files.

```bash
make setup-data CATEGORY_ID=1 MIN_PAIR_COUNT=20
```

This command will download the crop-traindata from AWS CloudFront, unzip the data, and finally process the data for training.
The ```CATEGORY_ID``` defines which type of items is trained, while the ```MIN_PAIR_COUNT``` defines the minimum number of items per ```pair_id```.
However, this script does not clean up the downloaded and intermediate data. If you like to save space, feel free to call ```make clean-unprocessed```.

## Setup data (Google Colab)
To save some time, we can directly take the data from google drive, which can be mounted in google colab.
To this end, you need to copy a link of the original [dataset](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/125F48fsMBz2EF0Cpqk6aaHet5VH399Ok?usp=sharing) to your own google drive.
In a google colab notebook execute:

```python
!git init
!git remote add origin https://github.com/sgerloff/sustainable_deepfashion.git
!git pull origin main

!pip install -r requirements.txt

!make setup-gc CATEGORY_ID=1 MIN_PAIR_COUNT=20
```
